New article Integrating new payment provider (#654)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/guides/Integration-Guides/payments-integration-guide/integrating-a-new-payment-provider-on-vtex.md

---
title: "Integrating a new payment provider on VTEX"
slug: "integrating-a-new-payment-provider-on-vtex"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2023-08-25T00:00:15.623Z"
updatedAt: ""
---

> This article is divided into stages that explain the integration flow for a new payment provider on VTEX. Before completing each stage and moving on, make sure to check and understand the information in the related links, as well as any prerequisites and settings that need to be in place in the current stage.

Reviewer: Em vez de `stages` acho que `steps` ou `sections` faz mais sentido

Author: Boa! Corrigido.

</p>

## 1. Payment Provider Protocol - Overview

Payment service providers (PSP), or simply payment providers, are companies that support electronic transactions with different payment methods, such as credit cards or digital wallets.

To operate in the VTEX environment, payment providers need to be integrated through the Payment Provider Protocol (PPP). This protocol defines the necessary prerequisites and settings that the payment methods available in your connector need to have in order to work in VTEX stores.

To understand how the Payment Provider Protocol works and the routes used in the payment and authentication flows, see:

- [Payment Provider Protocol - Overview](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/payment-provider-protocol--RdsT2spdq80MMwwOeEq0m)
- [Payment Provider Protocol - API References](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/payment-provider-protocol)

After making sure you meet the PPP implementation [prerequisites](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/payment-provider-protocol--RdsT2spdq80MMwwOeEq0m#implementation-prerequisites), the next step is defining how your connector will work in the VTEX environment.

## 2. Defining the operation environment

> On VTEX, a payment connector can operate in three different environments: ecommerce websites, physical stores, or both. Select the option that matches the operating characteristics of your connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On VTEX, a payment connector can operate in three different contexts: ecommerce websites, physical stores, or both. Select the option that matches the operating characteristics of your connector.
```

> ℹ️ Connectors developed for VTEX Sales App also use the Payment Provider Protocol (PPP).

To learn more about VTEX Sales App, see:

- [VTEX Sales App - Getting started and setting up](https://help.vtex.com/en/tracks/instore-primeiros-passos-e-configuracoes--zav76TFEZlAjnyBVL5tRc)
- [VTEX Sales App - Using the app](https://help.vtex.com/en/tracks/instore-usando-o-app--4BYzQIwyOHvnmnCYQgLzdr/6cq4E1JCmA6vCvBCCtAgIM)
- [VTEX Sales App - Payments](https://help.vtex.com/en/tracks/instore-pagamentos--43B4Nr7uZva5UdwWEt3PEy)
- [Payment Provider Protocol applied to payments with POS](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/payments-integration-ppp-applied-to-pos)

### Operating payments in both physical stores and ecommerce website

If you want to offer a payment experience in physical stores and on the ecommerce website, you will need to configure settings for both cases.

To learn more about this type of operation, in addition to the documentation references linked in previous sections, see [Unified Commerce Strategies](https://help.vtex.com/en/tracks/estrategias-de-comercio-unificado--3WGDRRhc3vf1MJb9zGncnv/2LGAiUnHES1enjHsfi8fI3).

> > ℹ️ You can develop a single connector configured to work in both environments (physical stores and ecommerce website). You don't have to create a connector for each type of operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ℹ️ You can develop a single connector configured to work in both environments (physical stores and ecommerce websites). You do not have to create a connector for each type of operation.
```

To learn more about how to develop the integration (middleware) and transfer sensitive payment information, see:

- [Implementing a Payment Provider - Middleware](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/payments-integration-implementing-a-payment-provider)
- [PCI - DSS Compliance - Developer Portal](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/payments-integration-pci-dss-compliance)
- [Secure proxy](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/payments-integration-secure-proxy)

### Developing with VTEX infrastructure (VTEX IO)

If you want to develop your connector using VTEX infrastructure, you can use our [VTEX IO](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-what-is-vtex-io), our proprietary development platform. VTEX IO offers the following advantages:

- Greater integration agility by reusing VTEX templates and clients.
- [Serverless](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/cloud-native-apps/what-is-serverless) environment with no need to invest additional financial resources related to infrastructure, reliability, and security management.
- Simplified authentication, authorization, and configuration resources that are integrated with all other VTEX systems.

> If you use our infrastructure, you can also use our VTEX IO boilerplate, __Payment Provider Framework (PPF)__, which makes creating the connector faster in comparison to using your own infrastructure. With PPF, you don't have to manually configure the API routes, response and request body default formats, and sensitive information transfer (such as credit card information).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use our infrastructure, you can also use our VTEX IO boilerplate, __Payment Provider Framework (PPF)__, which makes creating the connector faster in comparison to using your own infrastructure. With PPF, you do not have to manually configure the API routes, response and request body default formats, and sensitive information transfer (such as credit card information).
```

- [VTEX IO CLI](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-vtex-io-cli-installation-and-command-reference)
- [Payment Provider Framework](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/payments-integration-payment-provider-framework)

## 4. Defining the purchase flow

A purchase flow represents the steps or actions that a customer takes to complete the payment of a purchase. On VTEX, the [available purchase flows](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/payments-integration-purchase-flows) are: transparent or custom (Payment App or Redirect). Select the option that matches the operating characteristics of your connector.

### Transparent

In the transparent purchase flow, the customer enters the payment information and places the order directly in the checkout of the VTEX store. This is the most widely used flow type because it allows completing all payment steps in the same environment, which improves the customer purchase experience.

To learn more about the transparent purchase flow, see [What is transparent checkout?](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/what-is-transparent-checkout--2Y4ECegUmcYUggmck2GOwe).

### Custom

> If you don't want to use the native VTEX purchase flow (transparent), you have two options to create custom payment experiences for your customer: Payment App and Redirect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not want to use the native VTEX purchase flow (transparent), you have two options to create custom payment experiences for your customer: Payment App and Redirect.
```
